math1300.md, before:

---
title: Math 1300 Recitation
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2018-12-28
toc: true
---

## What is recitation?

- "The repetition of a prepared lesson or exercise; an examination on something previously learned or explained." (OED 2nd ed.)
- "A safe space in which asking questions for clarification on big ideas, their applications, and specific problems is encouraged." <http://uaap.mit.edu/tutoring-support/study-tips/maximizing-lectures-recitation/optimizing-recitations>
- "Work on projects in small groups with several of your classmates." <https://math.colorado.edu/math1300/1300projects.html>

## How is recitation graded?

Thursday recitations account for 15% of the total grade in MATH 1300:

assessment | portion of total grade
--- | ---
written homework  | 10%
participation | 5%

Be aware this rubric is disarmingly simple!

### Written homework breakdown

TLDR; You will be graded on your *mathematical writing*.

To quote Lee Roberts:

> - You will be assigned several conceptual problems each week, which will be due on Thursdays to your Teaching Assistant.
> - You are expected to write up complete, legible, and logical solutions to these problems.
> - Each problem should be written using complete sentences to explain your steps.
> - You may work together on homework to understand the problems and even to solve them (in fact, we recommend it).
> - However, when you write up your solutions, this should be done independently, and in your own words.
> - If you are wondering if you crossed the line, ask yourself “Could I start over and redo this on my own, and would it basically look like this?” If not, then you are submitting someone else’s work.
> - Late homework will not be accepted, but your lowest two homework scores will be dropped. Your homework must be stapled and labeled with your section number to be counted for credit.

A warning from [Dave Rosoff](https://github.com/daverosoff/Math352ModelCourse/blob/a67c46189a268d835f485bfa24a1c9f737dd1e10/M352_S2013_syllabus.tex):

> I will assign more than twice as much homework as I will grade. You might decide this means that if you don't do most of it, I will never know. This is true in at most a limited sense: when the exam comes, I will probably find out whether you have been completing the homework or not.
>
> My goal is as follows: Every student who successfully completes all of the homework problems and *understands all the solutions* should be able to earn an A in this course. The exams are designed with this in mind. Therefore, I hope you will agree that it is in your very best interest to complete all of the assigned work, regardless of whether it is graded for credit.

### Participation breakdown

TLDR; You will be graded for giving your peers *constructive oral feedback*.

For credit, you *must post a record* to Prooflogger (<http://198.58.99.58/>) by 4:59pm Mountain time---every week we meet! Here's an example. If I made the following 16 posts in a timely fashion, I would earn full participation credit:

- #week1 collaborated with @calebpoppe in recitation
- presented problem 6 from the HW to @calebpoppe #week2
- ...
- #week15 met in the MARC with @samwilliams and @calebpoppe for the HW
- I gave a counter example for the final review. #week16 @samwilliams

> The course is designed so that you will do best if you work at a *modest but constant pace* throughout the term. Cramming might work too, but not as well---and not as permanently, which is really the point.

## Information about the TA

Here's what a typical recitation looks like:

- After preliminary remarks, I subdivide the class into peer groups of 4--5 students.
- I task each group to come to a consensus on a set of scaffolded arguments that makes rigorous either the example or the theory introduced in the preliminary remarks.
- I ask each group to select a representative to present and justify a particular step in the derivation, at which time the class is expected to ask constructive questions.
- I give a summary overview, and class ends with an exit quiz.

Here are comments from my previous student evaluations. Following the example set by [Kate Stange](http://math.colorado.edu/~kstange/evals-brown-comments.html) "I have included negative comments also (at the end), and tried to give a representative cross-section of both (as well as preserving the ratio), while reducing repetition."

Fall 2018 Sections | Enrolled Students  | Responded Students  | Response Rates
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
MATH 1300 (008)  | 25  | 21  | 84%
MATH 1300 (023)  | 27  | 20  | 74.07%
MATH 1300 (880)  | 15  | 13  | 86.67%
Overall  | 67  | 54  | 80.6%

**Positive.**

- Colton challenged our knowledge in this class to a very beneficial degree and I don't think any other could replicate that.
- Colton Grainger was a great TA for recitation! Super enthusiastic about math and it was easy to see he loves what he's doing. Thank you for a great semester!
- I appreciate your support to this subject. 
- I appreciate the enthusiasm and love for calculus that you bring into the classroom. You're always willing to politely help out students with questions, and you have the knowledge to give them thorough answers. I realize this is a college course, but your grading also tends to be tough (more applicable at the beginning of the semester, I believe), which can be frustrating when the work is correct but the style is a little off. You're probably preparing us for the test though, which is a fair reason! 
- During the period of recitation, I was challenged by my TA and was answering questions that pushed my limits of how I think about calculus. Any questions I had were answered during this period.
- colton is good in class and knows the material. at times it seems like he's afraid to approach us, we're all human!
- A little bit nervous in front of students. That is comforting to know as a student because there is no superiority complex or power roles. Thus, when he teaches, a student can see him as totally equal.

**Negative.**

- Knows the material well, sometimes overcomplicates explanations, be more firm about asking people to come up and explain or asking the LA to do something
- Please call on students less in class, I don't think any of us enjoy the surprise, even when we know the material. Having volunteers write their answers up on the chalkboard is a decent way to get the entire class involved though (if you don't put them on the spot)!
- Explained the content very thoroughly with lots of detail. Sometimes his explanations were too intricate and was hard to understand as a student. He is very well knowledged on the content, however.
- way too many terms we didn’t understand which is the worst way possible to teach concepts that are already difficult. Please dumb it down
- I am left more confused each time after I talk to Mr. Grainger
- I thought the quizzes for the attendance were so challenging and conceptual that I never knew how to begin answering them and ended up guessing every time. Even though we got the answers I would have learned a lot more if the questions were easier and more relevant to the course.
- I did not feel the attendance quizzes were helpful, they were beyond the scope and level of this class and did not serve much purpose for me.
- Dishonest and unfair

## Contact information

contact | how to access
--- | ---
email me | [colton.grainger@colorado.edu](mailto:colton.grainger@colorado.edu)
find a time to meet | <https://meetme.so/coltongrainger>
raise a complaint | [lee.roberson@colorado.edu](mailto:lee.roberson@colorado.edu)
leave anonymous feedback | <https://math.colorado.edu/feedback>

Commit message:

Table of data for posts

math1300.md, after:

---
title: Math 1300 Recitation
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2018-12-28
toc: true
---

## What is recitation?

- "The repetition of a prepared lesson or exercise; an examination on something previously learned or explained." (OED 2nd ed.)
- "A safe space in which asking questions for clarification on big ideas, their applications, and specific problems is encouraged." <http://uaap.mit.edu/tutoring-support/study-tips/maximizing-lectures-recitation/optimizing-recitations>
- "Work on projects in small groups with several of your classmates." <https://math.colorado.edu/math1300/1300projects.html>

## How is recitation graded?

Thursday recitations account for 15% of the total grade in MATH 1300:

assessment | portion of total grade
--- | ---
written homework  | 10%
participation | 5%

Be aware this rubric is disarmingly simple!

### Written homework breakdown

TLDR; You will be graded on your *mathematical writing*.

To quote Lee Roberts:

> - You will be assigned several conceptual problems each week, which will be due on Thursdays to your Teaching Assistant.
> - You are expected to write up complete, legible, and logical solutions to these problems.
> - Each problem should be written using complete sentences to explain your steps.
> - You may work together on homework to understand the problems and even to solve them (in fact, we recommend it).
> - However, when you write up your solutions, this should be done independently, and in your own words.
> - If you are wondering if you crossed the line, ask yourself “Could I start over and redo this on my own, and would it basically look like this?” If not, then you are submitting someone else’s work.
> - Late homework will not be accepted, but your lowest two homework scores will be dropped. Your homework must be stapled and labeled with your section number to be counted for credit.

A warning from [Dave Rosoff](https://github.com/daverosoff/Math352ModelCourse/blob/a67c46189a268d835f485bfa24a1c9f737dd1e10/M352_S2013_syllabus.tex):

> I will assign more than twice as much homework as I will grade. You might decide this means that if you don't do most of it, I will never know. This is true in at most a limited sense: when the exam comes, I will probably find out whether you have been completing the homework or not.
>
> My goal is as follows: Every student who successfully completes all of the homework problems and *understands all the solutions* should be able to earn an A in this course. The exams are designed with this in mind. Therefore, I hope you will agree that it is in your very best interest to complete all of the assigned work, regardless of whether it is graded for credit.

### Participation breakdown

TLDR; You will be graded for giving your peers *constructive oral feedback*.

For credit, you *must post a record* to Prooflogger (<http://198.58.99.58/>) by 4:59pm Mountain time---every week we meet! Here's an example. If I made the following 16 posts in a timely fashion, I would earn full participation credit:

- `#week1` collaborated with `@calebpoppe` in recitation
- presented problem 6 from the HW to `@calebpoppe` `#week2`, 
- ...
- `#week15` met in the MARC with `@samwilliams` and `@calebpoppe` for the HW
- I gave a counter example for the final review. `#week16` `@samwilliams`

What should each post include?

data | format | advice
--- | --- | ---
name(s) of collaborator(s) | `@calebpoppe`, `@samwilliams` | spell usernames correctly
week hashtag | `#week1` | use the same week number as the written homeworks

> The course is designed so that you will do best if you work at a *modest but constant pace* throughout the term. Cramming might work too, but not as well---and not as permanently, which is really the point.

## Information about the TA

Here's what a typical recitation looks like:

- After preliminary remarks, I subdivide the class into peer groups of 4--5 students.
- I task each group to come to a consensus on a set of scaffolded arguments that makes rigorous either the example or the theory introduced in the preliminary remarks.
- I ask each group to select a representative to present and justify a particular step in the derivation, at which time the class is expected to ask constructive questions.
- I give a summary overview, and class ends with an exit quiz.

Here are comments from my previous student evaluations. Following the example set by [Kate Stange](http://math.colorado.edu/~kstange/evals-brown-comments.html) "I have included negative comments also (at the end), and tried to give a representative cross-section of both (as well as preserving the ratio), while reducing repetition."

Fall 2018 Sections | Enrolled Students  | Responded Students  | Response Rates
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
MATH 1300 (008)  | 25  | 21  | 84%
MATH 1300 (023)  | 27  | 20  | 74.07%
MATH 1300 (880)  | 15  | 13  | 86.67%
Overall  | 67  | 54  | 80.6%

**Positive.**

- Colton challenged our knowledge in this class to a very beneficial degree and I don't think any other could replicate that.
- Colton Grainger was a great TA for recitation! Super enthusiastic about math and it was easy to see he loves what he's doing. Thank you for a great semester!
- I appreciate your support to this subject. 
- I appreciate the enthusiasm and love for calculus that you bring into the classroom. You're always willing to politely help out students with questions, and you have the knowledge to give them thorough answers. I realize this is a college course, but your grading also tends to be tough (more applicable at the beginning of the semester, I believe), which can be frustrating when the work is correct but the style is a little off. You're probably preparing us for the test though, which is a fair reason! 
- During the period of recitation, I was challenged by my TA and was answering questions that pushed my limits of how I think about calculus. Any questions I had were answered during this period.
- colton is good in class and knows the material. at times it seems like he's afraid to approach us, we're all human!
- A little bit nervous in front of students. That is comforting to know as a student because there is no superiority complex or power roles. Thus, when he teaches, a student can see him as totally equal.

**Negative.**

- Knows the material well, sometimes overcomplicates explanations, be more firm about asking people to come up and explain or asking the LA to do something
- Please call on students less in class, I don't think any of us enjoy the surprise, even when we know the material. Having volunteers write their answers up on the chalkboard is a decent way to get the entire class involved though (if you don't put them on the spot)!
- Explained the content very thoroughly with lots of detail. Sometimes his explanations were too intricate and was hard to understand as a student. He is very well knowledged on the content, however.
- way too many terms we didn’t understand which is the worst way possible to teach concepts that are already difficult. Please dumb it down
- I am left more confused each time after I talk to Mr. Grainger
- I thought the quizzes for the attendance were so challenging and conceptual that I never knew how to begin answering them and ended up guessing every time. Even though we got the answers I would have learned a lot more if the questions were easier and more relevant to the course.
- I did not feel the attendance quizzes were helpful, they were beyond the scope and level of this class and did not serve much purpose for me.
- Dishonest and unfair

## Contact information

contact | how to access
--- | ---
email me | [colton.grainger@colorado.edu](mailto:colton.grainger@colorado.edu)
find a time to meet | <https://meetme.so/coltongrainger>
raise a complaint | [lee.roberson@colorado.edu](mailto:lee.roberson@colorado.edu)
leave anonymous feedback | <https://math.colorado.edu/feedback>
