---
title: Algebra for prelims
author: Colton Grainger
date: 2018-08-27
---

\newcommand{\NN}{\mathbf{N}}
\newcommand{\ZZ}{\mathbf{Z}}
\newcommand{\RR}{\mathbf{R}}
\newcommand{\GLnR}{GL_n(\mathbf{R})}
\newcommand{\eps}{\varepsilon}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\lvert #1\rvert}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\lVert #1\rVert}

## Benedict Gross lectures

EX! The Ur monoid on a non-trivial set $S$ is ... the set of transformations of $S$ into itself, with composition of functions as the binary operation.

EX! The Ur group on a non-trivial set $T$ is ... the set of automorphisms $\mathrm{Sym}(T)$ (bijections from $T$ to itself) with composition of functions as the binary operation.

EX! $\GLnR$ is a subgroup, properly contained in ... $\mathrm{Sym}(\RR^n)$.

> You cannot learn too much linear algebra!

EX! What is the order of the permutation group on $n$ letters? ... $S_n$ is a finite group with order $n!$.

> I recommend you never write out multiplication tables when reasoning throught the problem will do.

FACT! The multiplication table of an Abelian group with $n$ elements is (what type of matrix)? ... symmetric.

EX! What's the matrical subgroup of $GL_2(\RR)$ that stabilizes the line $y=0$? ... $H = \left\{ \begin{pmatrix}a & b \\ 0 & d\end{pmatrix} : ad \neq 0 \right\}$, since the first basis vector is taken to a scalar multiple of itself!

PROP! The subgroups of $(\ZZ, +)$ are precisely given by ... $(b\ZZ, +)$, where $b$ is a fixed integer.

PROOF! Show that $(b\ZZ, +)$ for any fixed integer $b$ is a subgroup of $(\ZZ,+)$. ... It's closed: $bm + bn = b(m+n)$; inverses exist: $-bm = -b(m)$; the identity is $b0 =0$. 

PROOF! Show that the $(b\ZZ, +)$ for $b \in \ZZ$ exhaust the subgroups of $(\ZZ, +)$. [...] In this latter case, $H$ has $m \neq 0$ and inverses exist, so $H$ has a least positive integer $b > 0$. Then $H \supset b\ZZ$ by closure under addition and inversion. Suppose $h \in H$. Then $h = mb + r$ by the Euclidean algorithm, and $m \in \ZZ$, $0 \leq r < b$. I claim $r=0$. Why? $r = h - mb \in H$ and $r < b$, but $b$ is the least positive element. So $H \subset b\ZZ$. ... If $H$ is a subgroup of $\ZZ$, either $H = \{0\}$ (a subgroup) or $H$ is non-empty. 

<!---
PROOF! Show that the $(b\ZZ, +)$ for $b \in \ZZ$ exhaust the subgroups of $(\ZZ, +)$. If $H$ is a subgroup of $\ZZ$, either $H = \{0\}$ (a subgroup) or $H$ is non-empty. [...] Then $H \supset b\ZZ$ by closure under addition and inversion. Suppose $h \in H$. Then $h = mb + r$ by the Euclidean algorithm, and $m \in \ZZ$, $0 \leq r < b$. I claim $r=0$. Why? $r = h - mb \in H$ and $r < b$, but $b$ is the least positive element. So $H \subset b\ZZ$. ... In this latter case, $H$ has $m \neq 0$ and inverses exist, so $H$ has a least positive integer $b > 0$.

PROOF! Show that the $(b\ZZ, +)$ for $b \in \ZZ$ exhaust the subgroups of $(\ZZ, +)$. If $H$ is a subgroup of $\ZZ$, either $H = \{0\}$ (a subgroup) or $H$ is non-empty. In this latter case, $H$ has $m \neq 0$ and inverses exist, so $H$ has a least positive integer $b > 0$. [...] Then $H \supset b\ZZ$ by closure under addition and inversion. Suppose $h \in H$. Then $h = mb + r$ by the Euclidean algorithm, and $m \in \ZZ$, $0 \leq r < b$. I claim $r=0$. Why? $r = h - mb \in H$ and $r < b$, but $b$ is the least positive element. So $H \subset b\ZZ$. ... Then $H \supset b\ZZ$ by closure under addition and inversion. 

PROOF! Show that the $(b\ZZ, +)$ for $b \in \ZZ$ exhaust the subgroups of $(\ZZ, +)$. If $H$ is a subgroup of $\ZZ$, either $H = \{0\}$ (a subgroup) or $H$ is non-empty. In this latter case, $H$ has $m \neq 0$ and inverses exist, so $H$ has a least positive integer $b > 0$. Then $H \supset b\ZZ$ by closure under addition and inversion. Suppose $h \in H$. [...]  So $H \subset b\ZZ$. ... Then $h = mb + r$ by the Euclidean algorithm, and $m \in \ZZ$, $0 \leq r < b$. I claim $r=0$. Why? $r = h - mb \in H$ and $r < b$, but $b$ is the least positive element. 
--->

THM! The subgroup of $\ZZ$ of the form $$\{ a\ZZ + b\ZZ \} = \{ n \in \ZZ : n = ar + bs \text{ for } r,s \in \ZZ\}$$ is generated by $d$, where $d$ is ... the greatest common divisor of $a$ and $b$.

PROP! Let $a,b \in \ZZ$ both not zero and let $d$ be the positive integer that generates the subgroup $a\ZZ + b\ZZ$. Why can $d$ be written as $ar + bs \text{ for } r,s \in \ZZ$? ... Because $d \in a\ZZ + b\ZZ$.

PROP! Let $a,b \in \ZZ$ both not zero and let $d$ be the positive integer that generates the subgroup $a\ZZ + b\ZZ$. Why does $d$ divide $a$ and $d$? ... Because $a \in d\ZZ$ and $b \in d\ZZ$.

PROP! Let $a,b \in \ZZ$ both not zero and let $d$ be the positive integer that generates the subgroup $a\ZZ + b\ZZ$. Why, if $k$ divides $a$ and $b$, does $k$ also divide $d$? ... Because $a, b \in k\ZZ$, and under closure $ar + bs \in k\ZZ$, alas, $d$ has this form, so $k$ divides $d$.

DEF! A subset $U$ of a group $G$ is said to generate $G$ if every element in $G$ is ... a product of a string of elements (and their inverses) in $U$.

Would be good to see [particular groups of importance](https://groupprops.subwiki.org/wiki/Category:Particular_groups) for further examples. I can't get into a catalog of group properties, and it's seemingly hopeless to memorize.

### Making new groups out of old

- subspaces of a vector space

- cyclic subgroups of a single element

- *products of spaces* correspond to groups, why?

    - automorphism groups $\mathrm{Aut}(G)$
    - in impressionistic language, the "symmetries of $G$"
    - isomorphisms as "structure preserving maps"

One should verify that the inverse of an automorphism is an automorphism.

EX! What's a homomorphism from $\GLnR \to \RR^\times = (\RR \setminus \{0\})$? ... the determinant, since it's well defined and $\det(AB) = \det(A) + \det(B)$.

> Show that there exists a bijection from $\GLnR$ to $\RR^\times$. Show that such a bijection is certainly *not* a isomorphism.

DEF! Write the factorial $n!$ in two ways, explicitly and inductively. ... Explicitly (or imperatively) $n! = 1 \cdot 2 \cdot 3 \cdots (n-1) \cdot n$, inductively (or recursively) $n! = n(n-1)!$ for $n > 1$ and $1! = 1$.
